# scRNA-seq-BIOINF527
Final project for BIOINF527 class - scRNA-seq pipeline.

The single cell analysis data is retrieved from 19 ccRCC patient samples (GSE207493). The R pipeline uses the Seurat R package to perform quality control and downstream analysis. The filtration conditions for the cells of each sample was for each cell to have at least 500 genes but not more than twice the median number of detected genes. The proportion of mitochondrial genes was set to below 10%. All nineteen samples were merged using the merge command. The data was normalized and the top 2000 highly variable genes using FindVariableGenes were selected for downstream analysis. Cell cycle effects were removed, the data was scaled and PCA was performed. Harmony package from Seurat was used to eliminate the batch effect and then the UMAP was created. The clusters were identified using FindNeighbors and FindClusters with a 0.5 resolution. FindAllMarkers was used to calculate the differentially expressed genes for each cell type. Cell annotation was performed by two methods - manually using known reference markers and easybio R package. 

Manual annnotation - These marker genes correspond to T cells, B cells, macrophages, tumor cells, mast cells, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF), endothelial cells, and dendritic cells.
Annotation using easybio R package - The easybio R package is used to streamline the single-cell annotation process in conjunction with Seurat. It uses the CellMarker2.0 database to perform cell annotation, which is a human-curated repository of cell markers extracted from published articles. The top fifty genes from FindAllMarkers are used to annotate each cluster. The algorithm provides the number of unique gene markers and the count of expression. The top matched cell type was used to annotate the clusters. 
